# Current
**Current** is the movement of net charges. More formally it is defined as the rate at which net charge flows past any section of a conductor.

The unit of current is the ampere (1 A = 1 C/sec)

**Current density** is the amount of net charge flowing through a unit area.

$$J = nev_d$$

The relation between current density and current is intuitively going to be the sum of the current density at each point times the area of each point. This can be expressed in general using a surface integral:

$$I = \int \int J \dot dA$$

If the current density $J$ is uniform and the area $A$ is flat, we get a simplified $I = J \dot A$ which for simple wires where the angle between the flow and the area is 0, yields the equation $I = JA$.

# Resistance
Voltage and current are observed to be proportional in most materials. The constant that relates the voltage and current for a given material is called the resistance $R$: $V = RI$. The resistance can be thought of as a measure of how difficult it is for current to flow. When free electrons are flowing through a material, they will inevitably collide with the nuclei of the materials' atoms. Certain materials will have nuclei arrangmenets that will result in more collisions, corresponding to lower current flow and a higher resistance value.

This relationship of $V = RI$ is known as Ohm's law after being discovered by George Ohm in 1827. Materials that are observed to follow Ohm's law are known as ohmic materials while ones that do not are known as nonohmic materials.

Resistance has numerous applications such as being used to design circuit boards as well as its use in the myelin sheaths of our nerves to transmit electrical signals.

## Factors affecting Resistance
Resistance depends on the **material** and **details/geometry of the sample**.

Resistivity is the resistance of a unit cube of a given material and depends on the material only. 

$$\rho = \frac{E}{J}$$

Note that conductivtiy is simply the inverse of resistivity.

Resistivity and thus resistance, depends on temperature. Higher temperatures will increase the resistivity and thus increase the resistance and vice versa.